## Car-model-classification-and-localization api
We can get the prediction output by sending the http request to the api endpoint

### Run this Api need to install Library using requirements file
Install the requirements.txt in api folder and then 
```
$ pip install -r  requirements.txt
```

### Use web app with Streamlit
Install the requirements.txt in api folder and then 
```
$ streamlit run app.py 
```
### Use Fast Api 
```
$ python main.py
```
### Endpoint
endpoint : http://127.0.0.1:8000

Autogenerated docs : http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

### To access from python
```python
import requests

#Define API and Input
url = 'http://127.0.0.1:8000/predict/image'
file_path = '../images/MINI Cooper Roadster Convertible 2012.jpg'

#Prepare Input
files = {'file': (file_path, open(file_path, 'rb'), "image/jpeg")}
response = requests.post(url, files=files)

print(response.json())
```

### Sample response
```json
{
  "filename": "MINI Cooper Roadster Convertible 2012.jpg",
  "class_name": "MINI Cooper Roadster Convertible 2012",
  "confidence": 0.9849115610122681,
  "img_resolution": {
    "h": 600,
    "w": 1200
  },
  "bbox": {
    "x": 258,
    "y": 225,
    "w": 772,
    "h": 352
  }
}
```
### Image Processing Techniques
Resizing:

All images are resized to a fixed resolution 224x224 to ensure consistent input size for the model.

Normalization:

Image pixel values are normalized to a range of [0, 1] by dividing by 255.
This helps the model converge faster and achieve better results.

### Data Balancing

Data Augmentation:

Augmentation techniques like random rotations, flips, zooming, and cropping are used during training to increase the variability of the dataset and prevent overfitting.

### Hyperparameter Tuning

Learning Rate: Optimized to find the rate at which the model converges.

Batch Size: Adjusted based on memory constraints and model performance.

Number of Epochs: Increased until model performance stabilized.

Model Architecture: A lightweight model such as MobileNetV2 or EfficientNet was used for efficient training.

Dropout Rate: Used to prevent overfitting during training.

